## Rubric and how we tested
The methods we used to test are below the rubric points in bold and italics 
### For everyone 

* Open the calendar, it should be showing the current month.
    - ***We tested this manually by visually confirming when the page is opened the current month and year is displayed.***

* Go to October 2024. Observe:
  * A grid of 5 rows x 7 columns.
  * The first row contains Tuesday October 1 - Sunday October 6. Sunday and Monday are either labelled for September 29/30 or are blank.
  * The last row contains Monday October 28 - Thursday October 31. Friday  and Saturday are either labelled for November or are blank.
  * October 8th: Ada Lovelace Day.
  * October 25th: World Lemur Day.
    - ***We tested this manually by visually confirming all the above points by visiting the respective month and year and confirm the above points***
    - ***Unit tests in common.test.js***
        - getCalendarMatrix is tested for correct matrix shape and content, including leap years and various months.This verifies the correct row/column structure and calendar padding

* On the web page, open October 2020. Observe:
  * October 13th: Ada Lovelace Day.
  * October 30th: World Lemur Day.
     - ***We tested this manually by visually confirming all the above points by visiting the respective month and year and confirm the above points***
      - ***Unit tests in common.test.js***
        - getEventsForMonth is tested for various months to ensure the correct event dates based on data in days.json file
        - getNthDayOfMonth is tested for various months, weekdays, and occurrences (first, second, etc.), including error cases.

* On the web page, open May 2030. Observe:
  * May 11th: International Binturong Day.
   - ***We tested this manually by visually confirming by visiting the respective month and year and confirm the event date***

* The following months start and end on these dates, and do not have extra days or padding boxes outside of the weeks they're meant to cover:
  * 2024-12: Sunday (no empty days before) - Tuesday (4 empty days after).
  * 2025-02: Saturday (6 days before) - Friday (1 empty day after).
  * 2025-05: Thursday (4 empty days before) - Saturday (no empty days after).
  * 2026-02: Sunday (no empty days before) - Saturday (no empty days after).
     - ***We tested this manually by visually confirming all the above points by visiting the respective months and years and confirm the layout***

* Functioning previous and next buttons including at the end-points of the month+year selector (if it has ends).
  * If there are end-points to the month+year selector, the previous and next buttons must work flawlessly when going beyond that limit. The UI must not e.g. show an empty string, "undefined", "null", "NaN" or similar if the "current month" or "current year" is displayed anywhere in the UI. The calendar days must be correctly shown.
     - ***We tested this manually by confirming functionality of next and previous buttons. We also navigate to the ends of the selector range(jan 1900 & dec 2100) and cofirm the respective month shift buttons function seamlessly with no unexpected behaviour. additionally confirmed the new years based on shift are added to dropdown***


* A usable way of jumping to a month+year.
    - ***We tested this manually by visually confirming the functionality of the month and year dropdowns by navigating to different months and years ***
* UI is generated by DOM manipulation, and day generation is dynamic. Everything would work if arbitrary additional days were added to the data file.
    - ***We met this by having     minimal html skeleton purely to target from js for dom manipulation to render the ui. We also confirmed that the site still works for additional events by manually adding an event to the days.json file keeping with the shape of events present and confirmed the event rendered to the calendar in multiple years in the correct position based on the occurrence***
* The website must score 100 for accessibility in Lighthouse
    - ***We tested this manually by visually confirming 100% lighthouse score using devtools on multiple views***
* Unit tests must be written for at least one non-trivial function
     - ***We wrote test for all calendar logic functions in common.test.mjs. We consider all the functions tested to be non-trivial as they provide the core functionality to the app and they need to operate correctly to fulfil a number of the rubric points***
    
     
     

### For groups of at least 2

* Run the supplied file with `node`, generates a file named `days.ics`. Import that file into a Google Calendar (see instructions above). Verify the same dates as in the web UI.
* The events in the calendar must be whole-day events, and not have a start/end time.
* Logic for calculating dates must be shared between the web generator and the iCal generator.
    - ***We tested this manually by running the script npm run generate-ical which can be found in package.json in the terminal. This script generates the day.ics file. We then created a new calendar in google calendar and imported this days.ics file, thereby importing 55 events which was expected as there are 5 events per year and 11 years in the range 2020-2030 inclusive.***
    - ***We also confirmed the events imported are whole dday events with no start/end time***
    -***We ensure that the the logic is shared by importing the getNthDayOfMonth function and use it to calculate the event dates rather than writing another function in the iCal generator***